# Package and Module

## Package

Package is a way of code reusability in GO. As the name suggests, it is a way of grouping related code. Go modules is a way of dealing with dependencies in golang. Every GO source file (.go file) in a GO application file belongs to a package. That is why every .go file starts with. All .go files present in the same directory will belong to the same package.

Package can be of two types:

- **Executable package** Only main is the executable package in GoLang. A .go file might belong to the main package present within a specific directory. The main package will contain a main function that denotes the start of a program. On installing the main package it will create an executable in the $GOBIN directory.

- **Utility package** Any package other than the main package is a utility package. It is not self-executable. It just contains the utility function and other utility things that can be utilized by an executable package.

## Module

Module is go support for dependency management. A module by definition is a collection of related packages with go.mod at its root.  The go.mod file defines the

- Module import path.
- Dependency requirements of the module for a successful build. It defines both project’s dependencies requirement and also locks them to their correct version

Consider a module as a directory containing a collection of packages. The packages can be nested as well. Modules provide

- Dependency Management
- With modules go project doesn’t necessarily have to lie in the $GOPATH/src folder.

With go.mod and go.sum files we are able to install a precise version of a dependency without breaking anything. We already gave a brief introduction to these files at the beginning of this tutorial. Later in the tutorial, we will look at it in detail

- All the dependency will be downloaded in the $GOPATH/pkg/mod  directory with versioning

So if you download a different version of the same library then both will be downloaded in a different directory inside $GOPATH/pkg/mod without overriding each other.  $GOPATH/pkg/mod  will have two things inside it

- cache – This is the folder where all dependencies will get downloaded along with the zipped code
- Zipped code of all downloaded dependencies will get copied over from the cache directory.

The below command can be used to create a module.

```bash
go mod init {module_import_path}
```

**go.mod**

It is the module dependency file. It will have three things

- Import path of the module at the top
- The version of go with which the module is created
- Direct dependencies of the module.

**go.sum**

This file lists down the checksum of direct and indirect dependency required along with the version. It is to be mentioned that go.mod file is enough for a successful build. The checksum present in go.sum file is used to validate the checksum of each direct and indirect dependency.
